---
layout: default 
title: "Fundraising 101 DRAFT"
date: 2025-01-03
---

# Fundraising 101 DRAFT

This blog post is a comprehensive brain dump of everything I know about fundraising. Read this in entirety before our first pitch clinic. We'll talk about N things. This applies to pre-seed, seed, and Series A fundraising, although the lessons almost certainly generalize.

---

## Introduction

The best way to raise money is to **build a really good business**, and then make it very obvious to investors that the business is really good. There is no substitute for building something that stands on its own merits.

Paul Graham’s “A Universal Theory of VC Suckage” is [mandatory reading](https://www.paulgraham.com/venturecapital.html). 

[TODO: write more here]

---

## On How VCs make money

[TODO: write more here]

---

## On Competitive Processes and Leverage

The number one thing founders mess up when running a fundraise is running the raise in sequence, instead in parallel. They speak to a single VC, who drags their feet forever, and once that VC says no, they move to the next VC. This process is slow, and there's nothing to create urgency to move quickly. Investors also use whether other investors are interested as a proxy for whether or not you are the fund returner, so if you're not talking to other people (or if you've been rejected a bunch), they'll be less inclined to invest. VCs truly have a sixth sense about this stuff, so even if you don't say anything they'll be able to read it on your face. 

So, how do you run a raise correctly?

Let's start with the goal. Your goal when you run a fundraise to get to at least **two term sheets at roughly the same time**. Back-calculate from that: you want to run a highly competitive process, where all of your meetings (introductory, first, second, etc.) happen during the same time window. You're running all VCs in parallel, not sequentially. 

We do this for a few reasons, ranked in order of importance:
1. Leverage
2. Forced Timeline
3. Signal

Let's talk through each of these

### 1. Leverage

You need to have leverage to get good terms, and your primary form of leverage in fundraising is your ability to walk away from a bad deal. One way to be able to walk away is simply not needing the money (e.g., being cash-flow positive or having sufficient cash reserves). Another way is having multiple term sheets on the table.

### 2. Forced Timeline

By default, the VC is in control of their own process. They want to take as much time as possible to figure out whether or not you're a fund returner, since they get limited at bats. So their inclination is to drag their feet for as long as possible. If you are talking to many VCs at once, they can't drag their feet, or they might lose the deal to a competitors, and there are simply not enough fund returners for them to afford to take that risk.

### 3. Signal

Ironically, the more you are already able to walk away from a bad deal, the more interested VCs will be in your business. This is why oftentimes the best time to fundraise is precisely when you don't need the money. Running a process properly is also a signal of this (since VCs will know you are talking to other VCs), so structuring a fundraise in parallel instead of sequentially **literally makes you more attractive to investors**. 

So you're going to run your fundraise in parallel, not in sequence. 

## Weathering the Storm
So much of fundraising is about enduring uncertainty. This can be a grueling endeavor. For most of your fundraising process, you will be undersubscribed, and be seeing a large batch of rejections. But because VCs view other VC interest in you as a signal of being a fund returner, the moment you get a first term sheet, your situation will dramatically change and you will likely become oversubscribed astonishingly quickly. This is a consistent pattern. 

For example, in my Luminous Seed round, I initially set out to raise \$6M. For three months, the round was undersubscribed at \$1.5M, only including insiders and a few angels. Then, **two term sheets** arrived on the same day, and within 48 hours I had \$15M of commitments—which I ended up trimming down to \$9M.

---

## How Much Should You Raise?

One of the first questions to ask: **How big should the round be?** Generally, investors look for a financing that covers about 18–24 months of runway, by which point you’ve reached a significant **inflection point** in your company’s value. E.g. if you invest \$1M at a \$10M valuation, can you come back in 12-18 months and be worth \$30M or \$40M? If the new capital materially and nonlinearly increases the company’s value, you’re probably on the right track.

For a typical venture backed company, the expectation (given fund vintage time) is that you will raise your next round within 18-24 months. Since you don't want to go and fundraise with most of your cash used up, you're probably kicking off a raise within 12-18 months. So you want the cash to take you to an inflection point by that time period.

Another factor to consider when sizing your round is how fast you can fill it up. How much are your insiders willing to put in? How big are the checks that the people in your funnel can write. Unintuitively, I frequently tell founders to raise less (not more), and size up later if they're oversubscribed, because it makes it easier to get to oversubcription. 

Also for scale reference, at this moment in time (Q1 2025), expectations for Series A seem to be $1M-$2M ARR as table stakes. Series A amounts range wildly from $10M - $100M. 

---

## Seasonality of Venture Capital

Even great VCs operate on a kind of calendar. No one really has documented why, but it happens, and it is consistent. VCs typically go on vacation after Memorial Day and after Thanksgiving. So, if you kick off a round in the early summer or deep fall, you risk missing critical windows. Your goal is to get to a term sheet before those dead days, which means your best fundraise kickoff windows are January to April and September to October.

Don’t try fundraising in the summer. Every round I've seen that's been kicked off in the summer has failed. Fundraising often takes **1–4 months** if done competitively, so plan accordingly.

---

## Building Top of Funnel

OK, so you want to run a funnel. So how do we run a funnel? The first thing you need is top of funnel. In a typical VC raise for a pre-seed, seed or series A, you want to be taking 20 to 30 first meetings, in order to get to two to three term sheets at the end. Depending on the nature of the connections that you had to those VCs, that realistically means that you want about double that. So call it 50 to 60 funds at the top of the funnel. And then we need introductions to those funds. 

There are a few ways to get intros. The easiest way and by far the most effective way is to have your existing investors make the introductions for you. Typically what I do is I create a tracker of all of the funds that I would be potentially interested in meeting and I send that tracker to all the VCs that are already on my cap table and I ask them to fill out which ones they would be willing to make an introduction to. An example of what such a tracker looks like is here: [TODO: INSERT LINK]

There are a few other ways to source introductions, including:

1. **Other founders.**  
   - When founders send deal flow to VCs, it makes the founder look good if you're a good deal. If the founder has a good relationship with their VC, these can be really strong. I'd discourage you from taking founder-VC introductions if the founder has not directly worked with the VC 

2. **Advisory board.**  
   - If you don't have connections to existing VCs, one thing you can do is create an advisory board -- could include industry luminaries, retired founders or investors, or others. My playbook for advisors is always the same, and can be found here: [TODO: INSERT LINK]. The top level summary is:
      - Give the advisor a strategy breakdown and ask them to tear you up
      - Iterate the strategy
      - Repeat until they become a believer
   - Once you bring them on as an advisor and get their buy in, only then do you ask for an introduction. 

3. **Cold outreach.**  
   - I'd basically avoid this unless the VC has explicitly solicited cold outreach. 

When you're evaluating introductions, one thing to pay attention to is the seniority of the VC. You're targeting partner-level and up; associates and principals do occassionally do deals, but the barrier for them to push a deal through is high, and the influence they have is low. 

Also, this is embedded in the above advice but worth stating explicitly. What the introducer thinks of you matters. This is why you work with your existings (who are literally financially aligned), but with founders or advisors, you have to spend the time to get their buy in. The VC will almost always call the introducer and ask for their candid opinion -- you want people who will rave about you. 

What the VC thinks of the introducer also matters a great deal. Getting an introduction from someone on your cap table or from a founder who has worked with the VC before is much better than getting an introduction from a personal friend. 

When someone introduces you to a VC, you should assume that the VC is going to ask the person who introduced you, "What do you think of this company?" And you want them to say strong things. You would ideally like them to say, "I would like to write a check" or "I am investing my time in this business because I believe it will succeed." Your effectiveness will go down super-linearly as a function of how bearish they are on you. Again, buy in is critical.

Ideally, for any given fund that you want to hit, you have two connections to the fund. One person who can directly make an introduction and another person who can back channel or send support. In practice, this is very difficult to achieve and so, you know, for most funds you'll probably only have one and not two.

You should assess your top of funnel *immediately*. If it’s weak, you’ll need time to build it, whether via new relationships, an advisory board, or warm intros. The process of getting people to fill out a spreadsheet and/or bringing on advisors can be long, and you can't kick off a raise until you have the top of funnel. 

As a final note, if you're raising anything more than $1M, you're probably going to have a lead investor. This investor will probably eat 50%+ of the round; in a seed round or pre-seed round, they may eat the whole thing. When you are generating this list, you want to be focusing on the places that can lead a round. The places that only follow won't make decisions until there's a lead, and once there is a lead, they will make decisions very quickly.



### Importance of Building a Good Cap Table Early On

One thing that falls out of this being your process is -- when you're raising a pre-seed or seed round, one of the things you should be evaluating is whether or not your investors can introduce you to the people who will fund your next round. I've seen so many rounds fail on the basis of simply not having requisite top of funnel. Given that your ability to raise your next round is determined so much by your ability to run a competitive process, choosing investors who can help you succeed here is crucial. 

You should be asking this during your reference checks (more on this later). 

---

## Data Room
One thing that (mostly Series A and beyond) investors will ask for is a data room. This is a database of every document that's relevant to the business, including but not limited to:
- Formation docs
- Prior financing docs
- Board minutes and decks
- NDAs
- Patents
- Employee agreements
- Financial models
- Anything else that has C-level signatures on it
- Any outstanding legal matters that the business is involved with

It's easier to just as a policy maintain a constant database of this, rather than having to go scrounge everything up in a rush when you get asked. This process can oftentimes take weeks if you have to do it last minute. 

---

## How to Receive an Introduction

When you ask for an introduction, you should send each introducer a separate forwardble email for each VC you'd like them to introduce you to. They'll then ideally forward the email to the VC with a bit of their own commentary, and if the VC is interested in an introduction, they'll say yes, and the introducer will add you to the thread. An example sequence of this is below, where I am introducing <FOUNDER> to  <VC>:

[TODO: ASK NAWAZ IF I CAN USE THIS]
```
On Mon, Sep 9 2024 at 9:31 AM, Marcus Gomez <marcus.gomez@lmns.com> wrote:

+ <FOUNDER> please meet <VC>! <FOUNDER> was the first investor in Luminous, and if I were starting a new company today he'd be one of my first phone calls.

You are in good hands :)
-Marcus

On Mon, Sep 9 2024 at 9:28 AM, <VC> wrote:
yes please!

On Mon, Sep 9, 2024 at 12:10 AM Marcus Gomez <marcus.gomez@lmns.com> wrote:
This founder is SICK and I love what he's up to -- you wanna meet?


---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: <FOUNDER>
Date: Sunday, September 8 2024 at 1:52 AM PDT
Subject: <FOUNDER> <> <VC>
To: <marcus.gomez@lmns.com>


Hi Marcus, 

We're currently in the process of raising seed for <COMPANY>. Can you please introduce me to <VC> at <VC FUND>? Here's more context: 

---
About <COMPANY>: 


<COMPANY> is building the next frontier in software observability. We identify and fix your software issues by creating GitHub pull requests automatically, saving engineers time and helping businesses deliver reliable software. <COMPANY> is tackling the growing Software Observability market, which is currently a $4.1B market and expected to double by the end of 2028. Today, <COMPANY> has over $600K ARR, serving customers with opportunities for 2x-3x contract expansions including Bridgewater Associates, Mistral AI, and Skillable. Imagine a world where software outages never happen, and software improves automatically - <COMPANY> is working towards that vision.


About the founder: 


<FOUNDER> is the founder and CEO at <COMPANY>. Previously, he worked at <REDACTED> and built <REDACTED>, an open source database company used by thousands of enterprises with over 10M downloads. He has won several international software design competitions including <REDACTED>. <FOUNDER> got his Bachelors in Computer Science from <REDACTED>, and he is also a glider pilot - when you do not see him at the keyboard, you will see him at the local airfield. 


---

Thank you so much for your time! 

<FOUNDER>

```

What this means is that before you can kick off your process, you also need a short blurb on your company and a short blurb on the founders. This blurb doesn't need to be comprehensive -- it's just a hook to get someone interested enough in you to take a meeting. 

---
## Getting Insider Pre-Commitments

[TODO: FILL OUT]

---
## Other Minor TODOs

You should probably set up a calendly, or you can schedule by hand. With the volume of introductions that's coming in, the logistical overhead of scheduling meetings for a raise will get hefty. 

---
## Final Note: Fundraising Mode Is On or Off

Fundraising is discrete -- until you formally kick off your fundraise, you are not raising. When you're not raising, you shouldn't be talking to new VCs at all; you don't want any VC to get an advantage by being early (there are exceptions to this, more on this later). 

When you're in fundraising mode, it's a full time job. Your response time to any given interaction should be sub-24 hours; realistically, you should aim to keep it sub-6 hours. You should figure out how to delegate all non-critical work to the rest of the team. Your goal is to minimize the amount of time you spend in fundraising mode -- you do this by running a competitive process and closing as fast as possible. 

---

## Kicking off a process

Your pre-fundraise checklist is as follows:
- Do you have all introductions ready to go? (You have confirmed warm connections in the past 30 days for all 50-60 introductions)
- Do you have your blurb written?
- Do you have your deck written?
- Do you have your data room assembled?
- Have you chosen the amount you want to raise?

If these are all assembled, you're ready to kick off your process. 

A week before you formally open the fundraise, you will send all introduction emails out on the same day. You should handhold your introducers; all emails should get forwarded to the VCs. Call every introducer if needed, make sure they have the ammunition they need (this should just be forwardable email). 

If the VC opts in, they will usually add their admin to help schedule. Be kind to admins -- they do really hard work, and the impression you leave matters. 

You should schedule all of your first meetings in the same 1 week window; the tighter you can keep the first meetings, the better. 

---

## What Happens in the First Meeting?

You've got three main objectives in your first meetings. 

1. **Explain your business.**  
(See [TODO: WHAT A GOOD PITCH LOOKS LIKE] for more details.)

2. **Learn the VC’s process.**

Every VC fund operates differently. They have different timelines and different IC structures. Typically there is a weekly IC meeting where they decide whether to engage with founders, go into diligence, offer a term sheet, or close a deal. You should aim to spend 5 minutes (probably at the end) in your first meeting understanding how they operate; the code for this is "How does your process work?". You won't learn everything, but you should try to understand:
   - How do they decide to go into diligence?  
   - What’s their typical timeline?
   - Do they need unanimous partner approval, a majority vote, or can a single partner write a check?  

3. **Establish Next Step**
Never leave a meeting without a next step. It can even be as simple as, "When does it make sense to touch base next?". You want to keep momentum up.

After you take a first meeting, you should have your introducer and/or a backchannel reach out to the VC to get immediate feedback. 

---
## Running through the Processes

It's hard to say a ton here because each individual VC process is so different, but a few notes:
- You'll likely meet multiple members of the VC team as part of their evaluation. Don't assume that every person has been given a full download. I usually assume that every new partner needs to be given all of the context again. You can play this by ear.
- Your response time here, per earlier, is critical
- VCs will make it very clear to you that they are interested; if they ghost or aren't responsive after a few days, you should treat this as a no (although still worth following up).
- You should be consistently having your backchannel check in after every 2-3 touchpoints to get a sense of whether or not the deal is moving or not. Do not be afraid to get up in the face of the people on your team helping you backchannel. This is also the opportunity for your backchannel to objection handle on your behalf when it's necessary, so again, getting them onside before they make introductions is critical. 
- You should be updating your tracker regularly, so you can constantly see the state of your funnel. 

On a pre-seed or seed raise, you should be able to get through this entire process in ~30-60 days. For a Series A, this process may take up to 90 days. Anything longer than that and your deal is probably dead. 

---

## Evaluating Term Sheets

Eventually, if the VC wants to proceed, you’ll receive a **term sheet** (a non-binding but strong offer). Key considerations include:

- **Investment amount**  
- **Pre- or post-money valuation**  
- **Breakdown**: lead investor’s portion vs. how much you need to fill  
- **Instrument**: SAFE, convertible note, or priced equity?  
- **Board seat**: Are you giving one up?  
- **Controls**: Any vetos on future financing, M&A, founder comp, debt limits, etc.?  
- **Tranches**: Do you get all the money at once, or is it split? ([TODO: NOTE ABOUT TRAUNCHED ROUNDS])  
- **Pro rata**: Regular, super, or none?
- **Expiry**: How long is the term sheet valid for?
- **No Shop**:

If you have **two term sheets** at once, you can pit them against each other and negotiate better terms. If not, you may have less leverage—though you still have some tactics.

---

## Term Sheet Negotiation Tactics

[TODO: WRITE]

---

## After Signing a Term Sheet

### For Pre-Seed or Seed

Once you sign the term sheet, for a pre-seed or seed that's typically the end of the process. Typically you'll be investing on a safe note. And so you'll just send the SAFE, sign, and wire immediately. Do not wait to ask someone to wire immediately after they sign a SAFE. The moment someone signs a safe, you should have them wire immediately. I have seen many founders sign safes, not ask investors to wire, and this gives investors time to change their mind. The game theory here is that investors will bet that founders will be unlikely to sue them. I see this more with angel investors than I do with actual VC funds, but the strength of a contract is only in its enforceability, and founder code says you're not allowed to sue your VCs. So just minimize the time for them to say no. Have them wire right away.



### For a Series A

For a Series A round, you'll likely then enter legal due diligence. This includes mainly examination of the data room and the generation of deal docs. Once you've signed a term sheet, you'll have to halt all other fundraising as you'll almost certainly have a no-shop clause. 

You'll also have the opportunity to make reps and warranties. These are representations that the investor will ask you to make on behalf of the company about the state of the company. This is your opportunity to disclose all of the baggage that the company has. Many founders have the instinct to say as little as possible here, you should index the other way. You should say as much as possible. You should come up with all of the possible things that can go wrong with your business. If you don't include those in the representations and warranties, then you can be sued for not including them, not making fair and accurate representations.

[TODO: INSERT NOTE ABOUT SIDE LETTERS]

---

## Choosing the Right VC

Of course, term sheets matter, but the **investor relationship** matters even more. You’re effectively signing a **10-year partnership** with someone you might know only a few weeks. They’re on their best behavior now, so seek references.

Ask references:  
- How long have they worked with this VC?  
- What percentile are they in helpfulness?  
- Are they active or passive?  
- What happened when things went wrong—did they help?
- Intros

Run your own *cold* reference checks because the VC will naturally give you references they know will sound positive.

---
## Question List
[TODO: ASK NISHANT IF HE IS OK WITH ME JACKING HIS LIST OF Qs]

Here's a non-comprehensive series of questions you should be able to answer about your biz. 
### Company and Idea
- What inspired you to start this company?
- How long have you been working on this idea?
- Why is this a good idea to work on?
- What do you know that others don't?

### Team
- Who in your team does what?
- Why you? / What’s your domain expertise? / Why will you succeed?
- Are there any key team members you still need to hire?
- Who are your advisors? Do they own any equity?
- Are there any other equity-owning stakeholders?

### Product
- Describe your product to us.
- How does your product work?
- Do you have any proprietary technology, patents, or trade secrets?

### Progress
- What milestones have you achieved to date?
- What feedback have you received from users or customers so far?
- Can you share any metrics that demonstrate product-market fit?
- What is your growth rate (users, revenue, etc.)?
- What does your customer pipeline look like?
- How do you plan to scale the product?

### Competition
- What makes you different from existing options? / What’s new about what you make? / How is your product different?
- Why won't your customers just build this themselves? Why isn’t someone already doing this?
- What is your moat?
- Who are your competitors / who might become competitors?
- Why won’t a big company in this space build a similar product?
- What's your long-term differentiation?
- What trends or shifts in the market make now the right time for your solution?

### Business Model & Market Size
- How do you make money?
- How much money can you actually make from this?
- How much money could you make per year? (CODE: can you achieve $100M ARR and be a fund returner)
- What is your TAM?
- What are your customer acquisition costs (CAC), lifetime value (LTV), and churn rate?

### Finances
- How much revenue are you generating? Do you have any projections?
- What's your burn rate?
- How much runway do you have with your current funding?
- What are your biggest expenses?

### Fundraising
- Have you raised any capital so far?
- How much money are you raising, and what will it be used for?
- What milestones do you aim to achieve with this funding round?
- What is your valuation, and how did you determine it?
- Who else is participating in this round, and how much have you secured so far?
- How much capital will you need to raise?

### Risks & Regulation
- What obstacles will you face and how will you overcome them? What problems/hurdles are you anticipating? Six months from now, what’s going to be your biggest problem?
- What regulatory challenges will you face? / Aren’t robocalls to cell phones illegal?

### Vision
- What's your vision for the company?
- Where do you see the company in 5-10 years?
- What type of exit do you foresee (acquisition, IPO, private standalone, etc.)?


[TODO: WHAT A GOOD PITCH LOOKS LIKE]  
[TODO: QUESTION LIST]
[TODO: INSERT QUESTION LIST AND DRILL GAME]  
[TODO: INSERT HOW TO DRILL]  
[TODO: INSERT PREEMPTING AND SOFT MEETINGS]
[TODO: ADD THE IMPORTANCE OF EARLY PARTNERS]
[TODO: SAFE NOTE VS PRICED ROUND]